new explaination of language model (#35)
MrLongbottom/P9-Rapport: sections/language_model.tex

The \gls{lda} model gets poor document retrieval performance when not used in combination with another model\cite{yang2009topic}.
In \cite{yang2009topic}, they describe various combinations of \gls{lda} and other models. 
The language model they describe is similar to a query likelihood model, which generates a probability of how likely a given document $d$ produces a given query $q$.
To calculate this probability, they find the likelihood for each word in the query by using this function:
\begin{equation}\label{eq:word_prob}
	P(w|d) = \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda} \cdot \frac{tf(w,d)}{N_d} + (1 - \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda}) \cdot \frac{tf(w,D)}{N_D}
\end{equation}

> where $N_d$ is the number of word tokens in $d$ and $tf(w,d)$ is the word frequency of $w$ in $d$. $\lambda$ is a Dirichlet smoothing factor and is set to the average document length.
> When $D$ is used, it is referring to the document corpus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where $N_d$ is the number of word tokens in document $d$ and $tf(w,d)$ is the word frequency of word $w$ in document $d$. Likewise, $N_D$ is the total number of word tokens in the corpus $D$, and $tf(w,D)$ is the word frequency of word $w$ in the whole corpus $D$. \lambda$ is a Dirichlet smoothing factor and is set to the average document length.
```

$ \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda} $ describes a relative term which is weighted based on $ \lambda $. If $N_d > \lambda$ the value is closer to 1 and if $ N_d < \lambda $ the value is closer to 0.
$ \frac{tf(w,d)}{N_d} $ and $\frac{tf(w,D)}{N_D}$ are the maximum likelihood estimate of $w$ appearing in a document $d$ or the corpus $D$, respectively.

> \autoref{eq:word_prob} calculates the relative maximum likelihood for the word being in $ d $ and $ D $ and weights these terms based on the document length compared to $\lambda$, with smaller documents weighing the corpus likelihood higher, and bigger documents weighing the document likelihood higher.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\autoref{eq:word_prob} calculates the relative maximum likelihood for the word being in $ d $ and $ D $, and weighs these terms based on the document length $N_d$ compared to $\lambda$, with smaller documents weighing the corpus likelihood higher, and bigger documents weighing the document likelihood higher.
```

$$ P(w|d) = \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda} \cdot \frac{tf(w,d)}{N_d} + (1 - \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda}) \cdot \frac{tf(w,D)}{N_D} $$
where $N_d$ is the number of word tokens in $d$ and $tf(w,d)$ is the word frequency of $w$ in $d$. $\lambda$ is a Dirichlet smoothing factor and is set to the average document length.
When $D$ is used, it is referring to the document corpus.
$ \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda} $ describes a relative term which is weighted based on $ \lambda $. If $N_d > \lambda$ the value is closer to 1 and if $ N_d < \lambda $ the value is closer to 0.

> $ \frac{tf(w,d)}{N_d} $ is the maximum likelihood estimate based on the relative counts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ \frac{tf(w,d)}{N_d} $ and $\frac{tf(w,D)}{N_D}$ are the maximum likelihood estimate of $w$ appearing in a document $d$ or the document set $D$, respectively.
```
syntes lidt vi manglede at beskrive fractionen med store D

> Based on a document size difference compared to average $ P(w|d) $ calculates the relative maximum likelihood for the word being in $ d $ and $ D $ and weights these accordingly to this difference. 

Reviewer: tænker at den bør laves til en equation så vi kan ref til den, frem får at skrive 'P(w|d)' igen.

> Based on a document size difference compared to average $ P(w|d) $ calculates the relative maximum likelihood for the word being in $ d $ and $ D $ and weights these accordingly to this difference. 

Reviewer: mangler at skrive at små dokumenter bruger document set mere og store bruger eget dokument mere, der står bare at de bliver vægtet, men ikke hvordan
```suggestion
\todo{ref equation} calculates the relative maximum likelihood for the word being in $ d $ and $ D $ and weights these terms based on the document length compared to the average document length, with smaller documents weighing document set likelihood higher, and bigger documents weighing the document likelihood heigher.
```

Author: ```suggestion
\todo{ref equation} calculates the relative maximum likelihood for the word being in $ d $ and $ D $ and weights these terms based on the document length compared to $\lambda$, with smaller documents weighing the corpus likelihood higher, and bigger documents weighing the document likelihood higher.
```

> To calculate this for a given query, we take the product of the word likelihood to get the probability for $q$.

Reviewer: ved ikke om dette skal være her eftersom at vi bruger denne formel til alle vores metoder. Ellers skal vi nok beskrive at vi bruger det til dem alle.
Derudover tror jeg også vi skal have en lille linje som beskriver hvorfor at det bliver multipliceret (probability logik), but idk.
